# Appendix 2: Data Dictionary

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Site Data Dictionary" %}
**site\_oid**: Unique ID given to each site. Each site is either a stand-alone retail parcel with floor area ratio less than 0.4 or one site in which more than one retail parcel with floor are ratio of less than 0.4 are adjacent to one another.

**sitearea\_ac**: Site area specified in acres.

**Buildable area (square feet)**: The square footage of the site that is not part of an excluded category (wetland or within 50 feet of a wetland, slope 20% grade or more, within a FEMA 1% chance area, or permanently protected open space).

**Estimated capacity (all residential):** Estimated number of housing units that can be built on the site if all development is devoted to residential space.

**Estimated capacity (some commercial):** Estimated number of housing units that can be built on the site if some of the first floor of the new development is dedicated to commercial space.

**AREA\_parcel:** Site area specified in square meters.

**disttosewerft:** Shortest distance between the parcel and the nearest known sewer line in feet.

**jobs45intr:** Number of jobs within a 45-minute commute by public transit (Minnesota Accessibility Observatory, 2016).

**station:** Name of train or subway station within one half mile, if any.

**busstop**: Name of bus stop or line within one half mile, if any.

**jobs45mincar:** Number of jobs within a 45-minute commute by car at 8 AM (Owen and Murphy, 2020).

**pctnonautocmt:** Percent of commuters in the census tract in which the site lies who commute by methods other than automobiles (Owen and Murphy, 2020).

**walkscore:** The maximum WalkScore™ at the site.

**pub\_ind:** The number of public school grades which are within walking distance of the site.

**fz100\_p:** The fraction of the site’s area that is in a FEMA 1% chance flood zone (FEMA National Flood Hazard Layer, July 2017). Empty if no overlap.

**fz500\_p:** The fraction of the site’s area that is in a FEMA 0.2% chance or greater flood zone (FEMA National Flood Hazard Layer, July 2017). Empty if no overlap.

**z2wpa\_p:** The fraction of the site’s area that is in a Zone 2 Wellhead Protection Area. Empty if no overlap.

**autodealer:** This column contains the value “A” if the site contains an autodealership. It is empty otherwise. Data from COSTAR.

**openspace\_p:** The fraction of the site’s area that is permanently protected open space. Empty if no overlap with permanently protected open space.

**highway:** This column gives the route number of any principal arterial within 50 feet of the site. The column is empty otherwise.

**ch21e\_p:** This column gives the fraction of the site’s area that overlaps with a 150-foot buffer around a Chapter 21E site. The column is empty if there is no overlap.

**aulsite\_p:** This column gives the fraction of the site’s area that overlaps with a 150-foot buffer around an Activity Use Limitation (AUL) site. The column is empty if there is no overlap.

**wetland100\_p:** This column gives the fraction of the site’s area that overlaps with a MassDEP wetland and/or a 100-foot buffer zone around the boundary of a MassDEP wetland. The column is empty if there is no overlap.

**excluded\_p:** This column gives the fraction of the site’s area that is excluded from development for the following reasons:

* Slope 20% grade or greater
* Within 50 feet of a MassDEP wetland
* Within a FEMA 1% chance flood zone
* It is permanently protected as open space

**muni\_id:** Integer ID of the Massachusetts municipality in which the site lies.

**municipal:** Name of municipality in which the site lies.

**type\_id:** Integer ID of Massachusetts community type in which the site lies.

**subtype\_id:** Integer ID of Massachusetts community subtype in which the site lies.

**commtype:** Massachusetts community type in which the site lies (MAPC, 2008).

**subtype:** Massachusetts community subtype in which the site lies (MAPC, 2008).

**transit\_typ:** If the site lies within half a mile of a transit station, this column indicates the transit station typology of that transit station (MAPC, 2012). Otherwise, the column will be blank.

**Tax Revenue (before retrofit):** Estimated municipal tax revenue generated by site given current use.

**Tax Revenue (after retrofit):** Estimated municipal tax revenue generated by site assuming conversion to residential use as modeled in this analysis.

**Number of Parcels on Site:** The number of parcels that overlap with the site.

**Parcel IDs**: String-format list of MAPC unique IDs of parcels overlapping the site. Site IDs are separated by spaces.

**Healthy Communities Score:** Numeric score from 0 to 1 representing the parcel’s suitability for mixed-use development in the “Healthy Communities” category. Higher scores represent better suitability.

**Healthy Watersheds Score:** Numeric score from 0 to 1 representing the parcel’s suitability for mixed-use development in the “Healthy Watersheds” category. Higher scores represent better suitability.

**Travel Choices Score:** Numeric score from 0 to 1 representing the parcel’s suitability for mixed-use development in the “Travel Choices” category. Higher scores represent better suitability.

**Growth Potential Score:** Numeric score from 0 to 1 representing the parcel’s suitability for mixed-use redevelopment in the “Growth Potential” category. Higher scores represent better suitability.

**Overall Score:** Numeric score representing the parcel’s suitability for retail to mixed-use residential conversion based on the four category scores. Higher scores represent better suitability.

**Site Tax Revenue Change:** Estimated pre-conversion tax revenue at the site subtracted from the estimated post-conversion tax revenue at the site.

**Municipal Total Tax Increase**: Total estimated amount municipal tax revenue would increase if all strip mall sites in the municipality were converted to residential use.

**Municipal Avg Tax Increase:** Average estimated amount municipal tax revenue would increase per strip mall site in the municipality converted to residential use.
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Parcel Data Dictionary" %}
Columns not documented here are documented in “Massachusetts Land Parcel Database: Dataset description and field list” (MAPC, 2015).

**mapc\_id**: Unique numeric ID assigned to each parcel by MAPC.

**sitearea\_ac**: Parcel area specified in acres.

**Buildable area (square feet)**: The square footage of the parcel that is not part of an excluded category (wetland or within 50 feet of a wetland, slope 20% grade or more, within a FEMA 1% chance area, or permanently protected open space).

**Estimated capacity (all residential):** Estimated number of housing units that can be built on the parcel if all development is devoted to residential space.

**Estimated capacity (some commercial):** Estimated number of housing units that can be built on the parcel if some of the first floor of the new development is dedicated to commercial space.

**AREA\_parcel:** Parcel area specified in square meters.

**disttosewerft:** Shortest distance between the parcel and the nearest known sewer line in feet (data from MAPC, 2013).

**jobs45intr:** Number of jobs within a 45-minute commute by public transit (Minnesota Accessibility Observatory, 2016).

**jobs45mincar:** Number of jobs within a 45-minute commute by car at 8 AM (Owen and Murphy, 2020).

**station:** Name of train or subway station within one half mile, if any.

**busstop**: Name of bus stop or line within one half mile, if any.

**pctnonautocmt:** Percent of commuters in the census tract in which the parcel lies who commute by methods other than automobiles (Owen and Murphy, 2020).

**walkscore:** The WalkScore™ at the parcel.

**pub\_ind:** The number of public school grades which are within walking distance of the parcel.

**fz100\_p:** The fraction of the parcel’s area that is in a FEMA 1% chance flood zone (FEMA National Flood Hazard Layer, July 2017). Empty if no overlap.

**fz500\_p:** The fraction of the parcel’s area that is in a FEMA 0.2% chance or greater flood zone (FEMA National Flood Hazard Layer, July 2017). Empty if no overlap.

**z2wpa\_p:** The fraction of the parcel’s area that is in a Zone 2 Wellhead Protection Area. Empty if no overlap.

**autodealer:** This column contains the value “A” if the parcel is an autodealership. It is empty otherwise. Data from COSTAR.

**openspace\_p:** The fraction of the parcel’s area that is permanently protected open space. Empty if no overlap with permanently protected open space.

**highway:** This column gives the route number of any principal arterial within 50 feet of the parcel. The column is empty otherwise.

**ch21e\_p:** This column gives the fraction of the parcel’s area that overlaps with a 150-foot buffer around a Chapter 21E site. The column is empty if there is no overlap.

**aulsite\_p:** This column gives the fraction of the parcel’s area that overlaps with a 150-foot buffer around an Activity Use Limitation (AUL) site. The column is empty if there is no overlap.

**wetland100\_p:** This column gives the fraction of the parcel’s area that overlaps with a MassDEP wetland and/or a 100-foot buffer zone around the boundary of a MassDEP wetland. The column is empty if there is no overlap.

**excluded\_p:** This column gives the fraction of the parcel’s area that is excluded from development for the following reasons:

* Slope 20% grade or greater
* Within 50 feet of a MassDEP wetland
* Within a FEMA 1% chance flood zone
* It is permanently protected as open space

**muni\_id:** Integer ID of the Massachusetts municipality in which the parcel lies.

**municipal:** Name of municipality in which the parcel lies.

**type\_id:** Integer ID of Massachusetts community type in which the parcel lies.

**subtype\_id:** Integer ID of Massachusetts community subtype in which the parcel lies.

**commtype:** Massachusetts community type in which the parcel lies (MAPC, 2008).

**subtype:** Massachusetts community subtype in which the parcel lies (MAPC, 2008).

**transit\_typ:** If the parcel lies within half a mile of a transit station, this column indicates the transit station typology of that transit station (MAPC, 2012). Otherwise, the column will be blank.

**Healthy Communities Score:** Numeric score from 0 to 1 representing the parcel’s suitability for mixed-use development in the “Healthy Communities” category. Higher scores represent better suitability.

**Healthy Watersheds Score:** Numeric score from 0 to 1 representing the parcel’s suitability for mixed-use development in the “Healthy Watersheds” category. Higher scores represent better suitability.

**Travel Choices Score:** Numeric score from 0 to 1 representing the parcel’s suitability for mixed-use development in the “Travel Choices” category. Higher scores represent better suitability.

**Growth Potential Score:** Numeric score from 0 to 1 representing the parcel’s suitability for mixed-use redevelopment in the “Growth Potential” category. Higher scores represent better suitability.

**Overall Score:** Numeric score representing the parcel’s suitability for retail to mixed-use residential conversion based on the four category scores. Higher scores represent better suitability.
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

**Link to full dataset and shapfile:**

{% embed url="https://datacommon.mapc.org/browser/datasets/442" %}
